Revamp Service Bindings docs for RPC (#13252)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/compatible-types.md

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Compatible Types
meta:
  title: Workers RPC — Compatible Types

>   description: JavaScript types that are compatible with the Workers RPC system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: JavaScript types that are compatible with the Workers RPC system.
```

Instances of classes that you define (those with a custom prototype) are the one exception to this rule — they are only compatible if they extend the `RpcTarget` class. If you attempt to send a class instance over RPC that does not extend `RpcTarget`, this will throw an exception.

The RPC system also supports the following types that are not Structured Cloneable:

- Functions
- [ReadableStream](/workers/runtime-apis/streams/readablestream/), [WriteableStream](/workers/runtime-apis/streams/writablestream/), [Request](/workers/runtime-apis/request/) and [Response](/workers/runtime-apis/response/) objects.

## Functions

You can send a function over RPC. When you do so, the function is replaced by a "stub". The recipient can call the stub like a function, but doing so makes a new RPC back to the place where the function originated.

### Return functions from RPC methods

{{<render file="_service-binding-rpc-functions-example.md" productFolder="workers">}}

### Send functions as parameters of RPC methods

You can also send a function in the parameters of an RPC. This enables the "server" to call back to the "client", reversing the direction of the relationship.

> Because of this, the words "client" and "server" can be ambiguous when talking about RPC. The "server" is a Durable Object or WorkerEntrypoint, and the "client" is the Worker that invoked the server via a binding. But, RPCs can flow both ways between the two. When talking about an individual RPC, you should instead use the words "caller" and "callee".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of this, the words "client" and "server" can be ambiguous when talking about RPC. The "server" is a Durable Object or WorkerEntrypoint, and the "client" is the Worker that invoked the server via a binding. But, RPCs can flow both ways between the two. When talking about an individual RPC, we recommend instead using the words "caller" and "callee".
```

## Class Instances

To use an instance of a class that you define as a parameter or return value of an RPC method, you must extend the built-in `RpcTarget` class.

Consider the following example:

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---
name = "counter"
main = "./src/counter.js"
```

```js
---

> filename: counter.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
filename: src/counter.js
```

---
import { WorkerEntrypoint, RpcTarget } from "cloudflare:workers";

class Counter extends RpcTarget {
  #value = 0;

  increment(amount) {
    this.#value += amount;
    return this.#value;
  }

  get value() {
    return this.#value;
  }
}

export class CounterService extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async newCounter() {
    return new Counter();
  }

> }

Reviewer: Currently, we still need a default export with at least one handler.

```suggestion
}

export default {
  fetch() {
    return new Response("ok")
  }
}
```

{{<Aside type="note" description="Returning class instances is more efficient than returning objects with many functions">}}
While it's possible to define a similar interface to the caller using an object that contains many functions, this is less efficient. If you return an object that contains five functions, then you are creating five stubs. If you return a class instance, where the class declares five methods, you are only returning a single stub. Returning a single stub is often more efficient and easier to reason about. Additionally, when returning an object, non-function properties of the object will be transmitted at the time the object itself is transmitted; they cannot be fetched asynchronously on-demand.
{{</Aside>}}

## ReadableStream, WriteableStream, Request and Response

You can send and receive [`ReadableStream`](/workers/runtime-apis/streams/readablestream/), [`WriteableStream`](/workers/runtime-apis/streams/writablestream/), [`Request`](/workers/runtime-apis/request/), and [`Response`](/workers/runtime-apis/response/) using RPC methods. When doing so, bytes in the body are automatically streamed with appropriate flow control.

> Only [byte-oriented streams](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Streams_API/Using_readable_byte_streams) are supported. (Streams with an underlying byte source of `type: "bytes"`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only [byte-oriented streams](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Streams_API/Using_readable_byte_streams) (streams with an underlying byte source of `type: "bytes"`) are supported.
```

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Compatible Types
meta:
  title: Workers RPC — Compatible Types
  description: JavaScript types that are compatible with the Workers RPC system.
---

> # Compatible Types

Author: Lets move this into main RPC section since it is meat of this

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Compatible Types
meta:
  title: Workers RPC — Compatible Types
  description: JavaScript types that are compatible with the Workers RPC system
---

# Compatible Types

## Basic types

Nearly all types that are [Structured Cloneable](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm#supported_types) can be used as a parameter or return value of an RPC method. This includes, but is not limited to:

- Objects, arrays, strings and numbers
- Functions
- ReadableStream, WriteableStream, Request and Response objects.

Instances of classes that you define (those with a custom prototype) are the one exception to this rule — they are only compatible if they extend the `RpcTarget` class. If you attempt to send a class instance over RPC that does not extend `RpcTarget`, this will throw an exception.

The RPC system also supports the following types that are not Structured Cloneable:

> - TODO

Author: @kentonv — how do you think we should list these or explain? Trying to summarize at the top since there is a lot to cover in this section

Reviewer 2: i hope my solid trust here are valuable. because i seek for good version of myself to not doing bad.

## Functions

### Return functions from RPC methods

{{<render file="_service-binding-rpc-functions-example.md" productFolder="workers">}}

### Send functions as parameters of RPC methods

You can also send a function in the parameters of an RPC. This enables the "server" to call back to the "client", reversing the direction of the relationship.

Because of this, the words "client" and "server" can be ambiguous when talking about RPC. The "server" is a Durable Object or WorkerEntrypoint, and the "client" is the Worker that invoked the server via a binding. But, RPCs can flow both ways between the two. When talking about an individual RPC, you should instead use the words "caller" and "callee".

### Return objects with methods

> <!-- TODO: Should we more loudly point people to use classes here? -->

Author: @kentonv — thoughts? I think you had a comment about but lost it

Returning a class instance may be compared against returning an object containing several functions. Both ways can be used to create similar interfaces from the caller's point of view. However, if you return an object containing, say, five functions, then you are creating five stubs. If you return a class instance, where the class declares five methods, you are only returning a single stub. Returning a single stub is often more efficient and easier to reason about. Additionally, when returning an object, non-function properties of the object will be transmitted at the time the object itself is transmitted; they cannot be fetched asynchronously on-demand.

## ReadableStream, WriteableStream, Request, Response

You can send and receive [`ReadableStream`](/workers/runtime-apis/streams/readablestream/), [`WriteableStream`](/workers/runtime-apis/streams/writablestream/), [`Request`](/workers/runtime-apis/request/), and [`Response`](/workers/runtime-apis/response/) using RPC methods. When doing so, bytes in the body are automatically streamed with appropriate flow control.

> Only byte-oriented streams are supported. TODO — explain clearly.

Author: @kentonv — I didn't have clearest path to explaining this bit
